In this video I'd like to go over one of the most basic of the SBL containers the array container I'll
call it stood a in this video so we don't confuse it with a raw array.
In order to use this array container we must include the array header file the array container allows
us to create fixed size arrays of any type.
So what makes this different from a raw array.
A lot.
First it's an object type stood array always has its size associated with it.
Unlike a raw array a stood array doesn't decay to a pointer to the first element of the array when we
pass it into a function.
It's also very efficient element access happens in constant time constant time means that the time it
takes to access an element is independent of the number of elements in the container.
So instead array has five elements and you want it to access one of them.
The time required would be the same as if it had a hundred thousand elements.
Also since it stood arrays implemented behind the scenes by the SBL as a wrapper class around a raw
array we can't get access to that raw array address if we need to.
And we can use it with libraries that use raw pointers.
But the biggest benefit is that it's part of the ACL.
So we can use it with iterators and algorithms the Array class wasn't part of the original list T.L.
it was added in C plus plus 11.
You should always first consider using stood array in modern C plus plus when you have a need for a
fixed size array don't use raw arrays unless you have a compelling reason to do so.
All of the ACL iterators are available withstood array and they don't invalidate.
And that makes sense because to raise a fixed size structure.
OK so first let's look at a few ways to initialize it arrays and then we'll see some of the common member
methods.
Stood array is a very simple template class since the size of the array must be known at compile time.
We have to provide both the type we want to store in it as well as the size this is exactly what we
did a few videos ago when we created a Mirei class in the first example in the slide I declared a r
r one as a stood array of 5 integers and I initialize these five integers to 1 2 3 4 and 5.
If we have more than five integers in the initializer list we'll get an error if we have fewer than
5 the remaining integers omitted will be set to zero.
Now there is a quirk with the initializer list in C plus plus 11 you need to provide double curly braces
in C plus plus 14 and 4.
You don't just a single curly brace.
So in the second example I'm declaring Stooges as a stewed array of three strings and I'm initializing
them to Larry Moe and Curly.
Not that I can use C-style string literals and they'll be converted to stood strings.
There's also a very handy way to assign multiple values to an existing stood array.
We can use an assignment statement in an initializer list.
This is really cool and extremely useful.
So now let's see some common methods provided by stood array in this section.
I'm not going to exhaustively go over all the methods provided by all of the ACL containers that would
be pretty boring for me and it would probably be even more boring for you.
So what I want to do is go over some of the most common methods used in some of the methods particular
to specific containers.
So let's start with the size method.
This method is available to all containers in the studio array.
It's pretty simple.
It's the size of the container and it's fixed arrays.
Also let us access individual array elements.
We can use either the subscript syntax or the DOT method.
Now if you remember from the vector subscript operator does no bounds checking but the method does do
bounds checking and an exception is thrown if we're out of bounds you can see an example code that A-R
are at 0 will refer to a 1 in the array or R and R R someone refers to the two this array also provides
front and back methods.
Now these methods return references to the element at the front of the array and of the element at the
back of the array respectively.
In this example our front refers to the one and a r r back refers to the five the empty method will
return true if the array is empty and false otherwise this doesn't mean how many elements out of the
elements you are using it basically means it's the size of the array.
This is rarely ever use withstood array but it is with other SDL containers.
The fill method is very handy and fills the Stood array with whatever element is provided.
Remember I'm using ints here for these examples but these could be almost any data type.
We can also swap two stood arrays of the same size and type.
All we have to do is simply call swap with one and pass the other in.
And finally we can use the dot data method to get access to the underlying raw array.
In this case data returns the address of the raw array of integers which we store in a pointer variable
as you can see stood arrays are very straightforward.
Now let's head over to the idea.
We'll see some more examples of using stood erect before we head off to the ID and run some examples
with the array.
I'd like to refer you to this Web site and I've mentioned this Web site a couple of times in the course.
It's the reference dot com.
I'm here in the United States so I'm getting the English version.
I'm not sure if this is localized for other countries it seems like it would be because you see the
end of the beginning here.
In any case.
Good to see Peepy reference dot com and it's got all kinds of good information about C++.
Up to now we really haven't needed it too much but with the container's library in the SPL your algorithms
and your iterator is this is a really useful reference.
I'm right at the main page here and you can see the container's library is right here so I'll just select
that and it shows you all the containers in the house for example array.
That's what we're going to talk about now.
Vector a deck of forward lists will talk about all of these in this section but this is a good theory
and this gives you a lot of really good reference and documentation on the array you can see it's implemented
as a template class here.
And if you scroll down just a little bit all of these containers we're talking about iterator invalidations
So if you're not sure about if you've got an iterator and you've removed an item is it invalid now it'll
it'll say it all throughout the documentation here.
Also the other important piece are these right here these member functions.
This tells you what member functions are available for this particular container and you can see here
I can be constructed and destructed and so forth.
But these are the real important ones here.
This is a really simple container the array container.
So you've got the method you've got the overload or subscript operator.
I noticed this one does bounds checking and the operator script is not the front the back the data the
things I talked about in the slides.
We've also got iterators you can see all the iterators are available to us here.
And then we've got some capacity methods and the fill in the swap that I also mentioned.
So this gives you a lot of really good information.
Now if you're not sure about what the front method does it mean it says here access the first element
which is makes sense right the front but if you want more information you can click on here and not
all of these things are going to be easy reads When you're first starting out with C++ but you'll understand
that soon enough and little by little you'll understand more and more and more and then these references
become very very handy.
In this case you can see what does it do.
Well it provides a reference to the first element.
That's kind of what I said earlier right.
The complexity is constant time which is cool.
Usually most of these methods will have a complexity associated with them and they will be listed here.
I mentioned before that with the SPL You know what you get.
So when you using these methods you know other complexity.
So if you're using something that's in linear time you'll understand that if it's constant time it'll
say it as well.
And then it's got usually some kind of sample code here that you can run right inside your browser.
So it's a very handy site.
I think you're going to refer to this a lot when I go to the idea I'll be playing with a lot of source
code that you can play around with and it covers the majority of these but obviously it's impossible
to cover them all especially as the containers and the algorithms and the iterators all come together
the permutations just go skyrocketing.
So play on your own and go through here study this this is the best way to really learn the SBL but
watch the videos first and then you'll be able to understand this a lot better.
All right.
So let's head over to the ID.
OK so I'm back in the IDM in the section 20 workspace in the array project and what I've done is I've
broken this project up into nine test functions and each one of these functions is independent and deals
with specific methods or iterators or algorithms that we can really learn.
My perspective on the SBL is the more examples you can see the better you're going to learn it and the
more you can apply what you're learning.
Two other examples you haven't seen yet.
OK so why don't we start rather than jump back and forth and running and compiling and so forth.
I've already run this and the output is over here on the right.
I've run all nine functions over here on the right and there's the output and what I'll do is I'll go
through them so you can understand exactly what's going on this will save a little time.
And that way you can stop the video and look at them as well.
So let's start with test one.
First thing we're going to do here is we're going to create two stood arrays.
They're both the same size and they're both of the same type.
So I'm creating an array right here called A-R are one of five integers and initializing it to 1 3 3
4 and 5.
I'm also creating a rate to the same size same type but I'm not initializing it.
And then of displaying both arrays.
Now the display function is right up here.
Let me clear this and show that to you.
And the way the display functions work for stood arrays.
Notice the parameter right here the perimeter type.
You've got to supply the information.
So we've got to supply the type and the size for all it's doing is just using arranged base for loop
to display it.
All right.
So let's get back to this.
Let's go through test case one here.
So we've got those two arrays A-R one or two I'm displaying both of them.
They're out right.
Here you can see there's my test one output right here.
Notice the first one printout.
One two three four five.
Exactly.
We expect no notice.
A r r to.
We're displaying it right here.
We've got five garbage values so nothing is initialized when we do something like this.
We're initializing this to the array but we're not initializing the elements of the array.
That's important.
Understand now what we have here is a really nice way to assign a bunch of values to a state array.
And the syntax is dead simple and it's so handy.
So what we're doing here is we're assigning 10 20 30 40 and 50 to our two that's the one that had all
those garbage values in it.
And then were displaying those two arrays again.
So you can see them displaying right here.
One two three four five and now 10 20 30 40 and 50 which is really nice.
Here we're just displaying both sizes now they're both the same size right so we should we expect a
5 and a 5.
And that's exactly what we get here.
There are both sides 5 size isn't really used very often stood a raise the size is fixed right so it
is what it is.
It's right here but it's used a lot in other containers.
Let me clear this little bit and let me scroll up just a bit so we can get to these guys right down
here the last couple of lines.
You can see here in this example that we can subscript into are one or two and he stood erect.
This does not do bounds checking.
So what we're doing here is we're drawing a thousand into our one Sub-Zero and that's this guy we're
basically placing that one with a thousand.
And then over here what I'm doing is I'm replacing a R are at one with 2000.
That would be the two.
So replacing the two with two thousand.
This does no bounds checking.
This does do bounds checking.
So if I'm out of bounds right here I'm going to get an exception thrown in.
Out of range.
Exception.
And all I'm doing now is displaying a or one and you can see they are displaying right here.
Notice the 1000 to 2000 have been updated as still have the three four in the five.
And then the last two examples are right here at the bottom where I'm saying what is a r r front and
what is a R are are up front and back.
So what's the front element of array and what's the back element of a right to.
Well array 2 is right here.
The front element is A10 the back element is a 50 that's exactly what we expect.
That's exactly what Prince right here.
OK so some really simple examples.
And again I'm going to do a lot of examples in this section so you can better understand how some of
this stuff works.
Let's take a look at the next one now.
And you could see the output for test two.
Right over here on the right.
Right here that so what are we doing here.
Same idea I've got two arrays already one in Ray 2MB initialising the first one one to five and 10 20
30 40 and 50 for a rate to displaying both of them.
And there they are right there just as you would expect one two three four five and 10 other way through
50.
Now I'm using the fill method I'm filling a re one with zeros.
This could be any integer.
I'm just passing a zero into it.
And again remember I'm using integers for these examples.
This could be almost any type.
So I'm using a zero here and filling array one with zero and then I'm displaying those guys again.
Notice how array one right here is all zeros now.
So it's a real handy way to fill an array with whatever value we want.
Now we're coming here and what we're saying is let's swap those two arrays I could say array one that
swap array two or array to that swap array one ram and swapping is swapping.
So in this case I'm swapping those two arrays and I'm displaying them again and you can see that they
have indeed been swapped right.
First it was a 0 there was 10 to 50.
Now it's 10 to 50 and the zeros are second.
OK.
So let's move on to the third test and let's take a look at this one.
The results are right here.
I had another line that printed that header right here but I removed it.
That's why you're seeing that test three twice.
All right so I've got a re one.
One two three four five.
Again it's a good array of five integers.
Now what's going on here.
The data method returns the raw pointer that points to the behind the scenes raw array.
What happens is remember a r r one is an object.
So it has some data associated with it.
One of the pieces of data is 5 right it knows its size.
The other piece of data that has is the actual array in this case 5.
So this guy is what's returned the address of that element.
So when we say are one dot data what we're returning is the address of that first element in the raw
array behind the scenes member the Stood arrays with a wrapper around a raw array.
And I'm storing that into a pointer which is a pointer to an integer the address of an integer if display
pointer.
You can see right there that's a memory address being displayed.
That's the memory address of that first element in the array.
Now I can change that through the pointer I could say the reference point to equals 10000.
And I just put a 10000 here and if I display A-R one you can see it right here.
See that 10000 is being updated right there.
Now you don't do this very often.
Obviously the whole point of using a stick to write is not to use a raw array but sometimes we use libraries
that use raw arrays so we can still use stood arrays for our work.
And then when we need to pass in the raw array we can use the data method and send them what they want
but we can still have the safety and ease of use on our end and what's really cool about using this
tool to raise on our end is because they are SDL containers so we can use them with iterators we can
use them with algorithms and so forth.
So that's that's the real power will go to test for and test for is a real simple example we're going
to sort this array it's really really cool.
Here's the array 2 1 4 5 3 and all of these are stood arrays and I've defined this one to five integers
again displaying it right here and this is Task Force.
You can see the output right here.
So I'm displaying array 1 2 1 4 5 3.
That's what we get right here 2 1 4 5 3.
Then I'm sorting it.
Now this sort is an algorithm right.
That's my sort function and it expects to iterators where do I start where and why end.
Well I'm starting at the beginning and I'm ending at the end I'm sorting the entire array and then I'm
displaying it.
So you can see right here displaying the sorted array.
One two three four five easy is that.
All right so let's take a look at test five.
And for each one of these tests I tried to add a little bit different functionality.
Again the more examples you see the better.
Hopefully you'll start seeing the patterns of use and it makes it much much easier to understand.
All right so here's test five.
You can see the output right here is just one line of output.
Here's my array are 1 2 1 4 5 3.
And what we want to do is we want to find the minimum the maximum in there.
So we have an algorithm called Min element.
We have another one called Max element.
It expects iterators right.
It's an out.
So array one began array one end.
I want to search through the entire array for the minimum element and this doesn't return the minimum
element.
This returns an iterator to the minimum element.
So this is how you would declare that variable M. is an iterator to a array of five integers.
Now that ugly that's really ugly looking coded it's readable but it's kind of ugly.
This is much nicer.
Let the compiler figure it out.
So I did it the long way for the minimum number and I did it the short way using auto for the max number.
So all I'm saying is auto Max Nahm Hey compiler figure out that the max numbers type based on the return
here and I'm doing the same thing.
And remember we get back iterators so we dereference the iterators and we get back the min number which
in this case is 1 and the max number which in this case is 5.
And that's exactly what we expected here.
So let's move on to test 6 and test 6 is a real simple test you can see it again right over here there's
only one line about.
There is another algorithm called adjacent find.
And what it does it searches through a container and returns the first occurrence of two adjacent values.
Now these two adjacent values are compared with the equality operator which we would overload if we
had our own classes.
But here we're using integers again.
So you can see here it is right here.
Two three is one right next to another.
That's what I expect.
So this also returns an iterator.
I'm using auto and I'm saying adjacent equals stood adjacent find from beginning to the end.
Give me the first occurrence of any two adjacent items.
It's possible there are no adjacent items so I would check if adjacent is not equal to array and I found
something that is equal to array and there were no adjacent elements.
So in this case we found them and there is the iterator which we dereference and you can see right here
adjacent element found with value 3.
Pretty cool and pretty easy and pretty powerful as well.
Hopefully if you're starting to see the real power of the TLM it's actually awesome.
He does so much with it.
All right test 7.
Here's the output for test 7 right here.
Really easy we're using the accumulate algorithm we've used this before as an example in order to use
this you have to include numeric hey it's not an algorithm it's an include numeric so make sure you
do that and all that does is it accumulates from this iterator to that iterator.
And this is where it starts if you started it 10 it would start adding from 10.
In this case I'm starting from zero.
What's really important here is that this type and this type and this type are the same.
So double double zero point zero make sure they're all the same of way you can run into some really
really weird little errors.
We do this it sums them up one super triples purpose five we display it and we get the sum is 15 which
is just what we would expect.
And let's do a couple of more.
We're almost done with these.
Hopefully you will.
You're following along I think you are because it's pretty straightforward stuff.
The last two will do is the count and then would you account if using a lambda and test 9.
So here's test 8.
This time I've got a studio array of 10 integers and I get to call that array 1.
And in this case I've got one two three four five six threes.
I just want to count them.
So I'm going to use the algorithm count.
So I'm going to say stood count.
They always use iterators from beginning to end.
What am I looking for the three.
That's it.
What do I expect that I expect back six right.
I just count them up here.
So this is an integer.
You get back to the integer of the number of occurrences it says I found three six times.
Something we would expect.
And then the last one is the count if which is very similar to count except it's using a predicate.
And what we're going to do is we're going to supply a lambda expression.
So here's what I've got.
I've got a r r 1 again is 10 integers it's a stud array.
And those are the 10 integers you can see them right here.
And what I want to do is I want to find out how many numbers are between 10 and 200.
So there's one there's two there's three there's four I don't want to include 200 in this case so I
expect back of four.
So what do we use.
We use COUNT IF.
Where do we start at the beginning where do we end.
At the end and what's the predicate.
Well I want to return true when x is greater than 10 and X is less than 200.
That's it.
And there's my lambda expression you can see my x is being passed into here for each element.
So the one will be passed in here is X and we're going to check that the two the three all the way from
whatever are iterators say.
So in this case how many matches we expect for display them right here and that's what you get right
there in the upper.
OK so again a lot of examples.
I did a lot of examples on purpose because I want you to have a lot of examples on your end in the source
code that you can play with.
And as I said you're probably going to get tired of seeing these examples but the more examples you
see the better.
All right so that covers stood array in the next video.
We'll start talking about stood Vektor which you know a lot about already.